# ICONDATA-SpatialRegression

This repo contains the source codes of "An analysis of the spatial attributes on community mobility changes during COVID-19 pandemic using spatial
regression" prepared for the International Conference on Data Science and Applications (ICONDATA) 2022.

Abstract

The COVID-19 pandemic caused by the Coronavirus is the latest pandemic humanity has faced. Compared to epidemics such as cholera, plague, and flu in previous centuries, this pandemic coincides with the world's most intense period of interaction and mobility. Therefore, many countries first stopped international mobility to prevent the spread of the epidemic, and then took some measures to restrict domestic mobility. Although these measures vary from country to country, they have affected the mobility of communities in each country. Within the scope of this study, spatial and non-spatial independent variables affecting the changes in the mobility patterns of the community in various places such as retail and recreation, grocery and pharmacies, parks, transit stations, workplaces, and residentials were investigated for Istanbul, Turkey. After determining the non-spatial independent variables affecting the mobility changes in 6 different mobility areas, the effect of the spatial independent variables on the mobility changes was investigated. It was concluded that the altitude variable, which was predicted to affect the mobility change, did not affect the dependent variable in any area. On the other hand, the independent variable that holds the information about whether the district is located by the seaside and the independent variables that express the latitude and longitude values of the district center affected the dependent variables representing the mobility changes in 6 various places in different directions and degrees. In future studies, it is planned to perform a regression analysis throughout Turkey by using and improving the method followed in this study.
